# Predicting Obesity Using Binary Classification Models

Obesity is a worldwide epidemic causing pain and suffering to individuals of all ages, as it significantly increases the risk of heart disease, stroke, type 2 diabetes, and cancer (World Health Organization, 2021). Obesity is also becoming ever more prevalent, as worldwide obesity has nearly tripled since 1975 (World Health Organization, 2021), and according to the CDC, over 42% of adults in the U.S. were classified as obese in 2020 (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 2020). In addition to the adverse physical health outcomes that obesity contributes to, being obese also carries a stigma that leads to poor mental health (Puhl et al., 2009). Hence, diagnosing obesity is crucial in order to receive needed healthcare services for combating it. It is also important for an obese individual to be aware of their condition so that they can make necessary lifestyle changes, potentially helping them avoid the dangerous physical and mental health effects that this condition entails.

Unfortunately, despite the importance of diagnosing obesity, many low-income and middle-income countries lack basic equipment like weighing scales and stadiometers in their primary care facilities, hindering the routine assessment of body mass index, also known as BMI (World Health Organization, 2017). In Sub-Saharan Africa, for example, obesity is underdiagnosed for these very reasons–there is limited access to standardized tools and anthropometric measurement practices (Popkin et al., 2011). For my final project, I attempted to develop a predictive model that can accurately decipher whether a person is obese or not based on factors other than their height, weight, and BMI. Although building a useful model without these important variables is a difficult task, the goal is for the model to at least improve the diagnosability of obesity in these regions where resources are scarce.
